angular-component-based-01-intro.md, before:

# PART 2 - Components with Angular 2



# Enter Angular 2



## TOPICS
* From AngularJS 1.5 to Angular 2.0: syntax changes, 
* but Component-based architecture remains



## Angular2 Key Concepts
Re-implementation of the framework
* build on best practices
* target a wider range of platforms
    * web
    * desktop 
    * mobile
* performance
* improve tooling



## Angular 2
Strongly Component-based
* no more controllers, scopes
* hierarchical Dependency Injection
* configurable change detection
    * dirty checking (zone.js)
    * Observables
    * immutables - based
    * custom
* generalized asynchronous handling (RxJs)
    * more general than Promises



## From Angular 1.5 to Angular 2 - syntax
In an html template

Model-to-view binding
```html
    <div [hidden]="results.length >0">No results</div>
```

View-to-model binding with events
```html
    <button (click)="ctrl.send()">
``` 

Two-way binding
```html
    <input [(ngModel)]="ctrl.userName">
```



## What the...
Initial surprise, but you get used to it.
* very clear if input or output binding
* also very clear if constant (``custom-size=10``) or bound property (``[custom-size]=x * 10``) 
* automatically works with all DOM events and properties
  * without requiring ad-hoc directives such as ``ng-show``
  * also works with Web Components, css classes



## Example with a custom component
The same syntax can be used to bind either DOM properties of standard HTML5 components, or custom properties of Angular custom components

```
    <message-list [list]="messages" (selected)="select(message)">
```

Full syntax
https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/guide/template-syntax.html




## Angular2 Hello World Component
See ``labs/20-angular2/base-helloworld``



## Aside - how to bootstrap an Angular2 Application
From ng-app to AppModule
```typescript
import { platformBrowserDynamic } from '@angular/platform-browser-dynamic';
import { AppModule } from './app.module';

platformBrowserDynamic().bootstrapModule(AppModule);

import { NgModule }      from '@angular/core';
import { BrowserModule } from '@angular/platform-browser';

import { AppComponent }  from './app.component';

@NgModule({
  imports: [ BrowserModule ],
  declarations: [ AppComponent ],
  bootstrap: [ AppComponent ]
})
export class AppModule { }
```



## Common directives
From 
```html
<div ng-class="{active: isActive}">
<div ng-class="{active: isActive,
                   shazam: isImportant}">
```

To 

```html

<div [ngClass]="{active: isActive}">
<div [ngClass]="{active: isActive,
                 shazam: isImportant}">
<div [class.active]="isActive">
```



## From Angular 1.5 to Angular 2 - constructs
* {{expression}} 
* filters -> pipes

* ng-controller -> @Component classes
* angular.component -> @Component classes

* attribute directives -> same!
* ng-repeat -> *ngFor
* ng-if -> *ngIf

Modules
* angular.module -> @NgModule classes 

https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/cookbook/a1-a2-quick-reference.html

https://angular.io/resources/live-examples/cb-a1-a2-quick-reference/ts/plnkr.html



## From Angular 1.5 to Angular 2 - Components
The key concepts and approach stay the same
* minor syntax changes
* component configuration in Metadata
  * as @Component annotations in Typescript
  * as fluent DSL in ES5 - ES6

https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/guide/cheatsheet.html



## For now
we focus on Component APIs

Additional concepts (module bundling, etc ) are needed before going into production

Additional help from the official Cheat Sheet during the labs
* https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/guide/cheatsheet.html



## Angular 2 - to probe further (see section 03)
* Dependency Injection (DI) 
* Services
* Http
* Routing
* RxJs and Observables
* ngUpgrade
  * How to incrementally upgrade an application from 1.5 to 2.0 with ng-upgrade

Commit message:

revised minimal introduction to key Angular concepts

angular-component-based-01-intro.md, after:

# PART 1 - Introduction to Angular 2



## TOPICS
* From AngularJS 1.5 to Angular 2.0: syntax changes, 
* but Component-based architecture remains



## Angular2 Key Concepts
Re-implementation of the framework
* build on best practices
* target a wider range of platforms
    * web
    * desktop 
    * mobile
* performance
* improve tooling



## Angular 2
Strongly Component-based
* no more controllers, scopes
* hierarchical Dependency Injection
* configurable change detection
    * dirty checking (zone.js)
    * Observables
    * immutables - based
    * custom
* generalized asynchronous handling (RxJs)
    * more general than Promises



## From Angular 1.5 to Angular 2 - syntax
In an html template

Model-to-view binding
```html
    <div [hidden]="results.length >0">No results</div>
```

View-to-model binding with events
```html
    <button (click)="ctrl.send()">
``` 

Two-way binding
```html
    <input [(ngModel)]="ctrl.userName">
```



## What the...
Initial surprise, but you get used to it.
* very clear if input or output binding
* also very clear if constant (``custom-size=10``) or bound property (``[custom-size]=x * 10``) 
* automatically works with all DOM events and properties
  * without requiring ad-hoc directives such as ``ng-show``
  * also works with Web Components, css classes



## Example with a custom component
The same syntax can be used to bind either DOM properties of standard HTML5 components, or custom properties of Angular custom components

```
    <message-list [list]="messages" (selected)="select(message)">
```

Full syntax
https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/guide/template-syntax.html




## Angular2 Hello World Component
See ``labs/20-angular2/base-helloworld``



## Aside - how to bootstrap an Angular2 Application
From ng-app to AppModule
```typescript
import { platformBrowserDynamic } from '@angular/platform-browser-dynamic';
import { AppModule } from './app.module';

platformBrowserDynamic().bootstrapModule(AppModule);

import { NgModule }      from '@angular/core';
import { BrowserModule } from '@angular/platform-browser';

import { AppComponent }  from './app.component';

@NgModule({
  imports: [ BrowserModule ],
  declarations: [ AppComponent ],
  bootstrap: [ AppComponent ]
})
export class AppModule { }
```



## Lab
Modify the Hello World example so that
* the Component class initialize a Date variable to the current Timestamp
* the html template displays it 



## Common Utility directives
From 
```html
<div ng-class="{active: isActive}">
<div ng-class="{active: isActive,
                   shazam: isImportant}">
```

To 

```html

<div [ngClass]="{active: isActive}">
<div [ngClass]="{active: isActive,
                 shazam: isImportant}">
<div [class.active]="isActive">
```



## From Angular 1.5 to Angular 2 - constructs
* {{expression}} 
* filters -> pipes

* ng-controller -> @Component classes
* angular.component -> @Component classes

* attribute directives -> same!
* ng-repeat -> *ngFor
* ng-if -> *ngIf

Modules
* angular.module -> @NgModule classes 

https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/cookbook/a1-a2-quick-reference.html

https://angular.io/resources/live-examples/cb-a1-a2-quick-reference/ts/plnkr.html



## From Angular 1.5 to Angular 2 - Components
The key concepts and approach stay the same
* minor syntax changes
* component configuration in Metadata
  * as @Component annotations in Typescript
  * as fluent DSL in ES5 - ES6

https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/guide/cheatsheet.html



## For now
we focus on Component APIs

Additional concepts (module bundling, etc ) are needed before going into production

Additional help from the official Cheat Sheet during the labs
* https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/guide/cheatsheet.html



## Angular 2 - to probe further (see section 03)
* Dependency Injection (DI) 
* Services
* Http
* Routing
* RxJs and Observables
* ngUpgrade
  * How to incrementally upgrade an application from 1.5 to 2.0 with ng-upgrade
